Let's now turn our attention to alternative architectures to support machine learning.
In many of today's largest companies,
it's common for the machine learning architecture to be deployed,
hosted, and maintained entirely in-house.
This was the case for the big data analytics team I built at Seagate,
where we hosted all the three layers; data, analytics,
and user layers on our own servers that we ourselves maintained.
Seagate had a specialized expertise in datacenter and Cloud deployment,
which made hosting internally a natural choice.
At companies that did not have such a level of skill,
I've leveraged public Cloud providers for hosting and deployment.
I have personally worked with three of the top public Cloud providers;
Amazon Web Services or AWS,
Google Cloud Platform or GCP, and Microsoft Azure.
Managed services such as AWS SageMaker provide many of the data architecture,
security, and monitoring services
necessary for data and machine learning architecture management.
These provide an alternative well-suited for an organization that does
not have the internal expertise to maintain its own solutions in house.
Finally, for organizations with little development expertise,
data science is still possible through commercial solutions such
as software as a service or machine learning as a service providers.
For these companies, an off-the-shelf solution such as those of Alteryx or SAS is
preferable to building and maintaining the infrastructure to
support data science either internally or via a public Cloud.
Commercial solutions provide ready to go functionality that
essentially combines all the three layers of the data science architecture.
For companies wishing to start out with targeted analytics and machine use cases who have
data science or data analytic talent on hand but lack
the data engineering and DevOps skills necessary to build,
configure, maintain, and support a data science architecture,
a commercial alternative can represent
a compelling way to access the benefits of data science.
The most critical factors in determining whether to purchase
a platform or build in-house include the following;
size of initiative, complexity of the models,
cash resources, internal technical skills, and maintenance budget.
In general, smaller initiatives favor purchasing an outside platform because
the fixed cost of in-house development and support are too large for a small project.
Standard models and algorithms also favor purchasing a platform,
since the platform is likely to support most standard approaches.
A well-funded budget also favors purchasing an outside platform.
Lower internal technical skills favor purchasing an external platform since
the organization's existing team may not have the expertise to develop in-house.
A smaller long-term maintenance budget also favors
an external platform since most of the maintenance cost will be borne by the vendor.
If you're building your own architecture hosted either in-house or via a public Cloud,
you have quite a lot of flexibility regarding
the data storage and computing capabilities you might need.
These must be matched to your use case.
If you intend to deploy complex deep learning models, for example,
you'll need a great deal more computing power than if your models tend
more towards parametric and tree-based alternatives.
The type of data you intend to use will
determine your selection of data storage technology,
whether that be in a data lake or in a relational or non-relational data store.
Cloud hosting provides elastic capabilities
so the compute and storage can be scaled on-demand,
a critical degree of flexibility for many companies
whose data science work loads may be uneven or likely to change.
Finally, Cloud hosting solutions
provide automated services for model monitoring and maintenance,
the final key component of a machine learning architecture.
Monitoring should focus in particular on whether model performance degrades over
time as ground truth data drifts from the training set on which the model was trained.
Monitoring solutions allow the user to set predefined thresholds and
schedule procedures that identify
model drift and trigger retraining and redeploying the model,
and can provide A/B testing capabilities to support the redeployed decision.
Cloud monitoring and maintenance solutions typically integrate with
appropriate notification technologies such as SMS or Slack.